docs/publication_list.md, before:

Full Publications/Events
==========

## 2025

- LLM Compressor related:

    * 知乎: [AutoRound x LLM Compressor：让低比特量化 LLM 更准、更好推理](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/1982167638315664412) (Dec 2025)
    * 微信: [AutoRound x LLM Compressor：让低比特量化 LLM 更准、更好推理](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/l5WA-1_4ipffQN6GOH2Iqg) (Dec 2025)
    * vLLM: [Advancing Low‑Bit Quantization for LLMs: AutoRound x LLM Compressor](https://blog.vllm.ai/2025/12/09/intel-autoround-llmc.html) (Dec 2025)
    * RedHat: [Advancing Low‑Bit Quantization for LLMs: AutoRound x LLM Compressor](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2025/12/09/advancing-low-bit-quantization-llms-autoround-x-llm-compressor)  (Dec 2025)
    * Intel: [Advancing Low-Bit Quantization for LLMs: AutoRound x LLM Compressor](https://community.intel.com/t5/Blogs/Products-and-Solutions/HPC/Advancing-Low-Bit-Quantization-for-LLMs-AutoRound-x-LLM/post/1729336) (Dec 2025)

- vLLM related:

    * 小红书: [AutoRound x vLLM: 把 4bit LLM 量化到可用](https://www.xiaohongshu.com/explore/69396bc6000000000d03e473?note_flow_source=wechat&xsec_token=CB6G3F_yM99q8XfusvyRlJqm8Db4Es2k0kYIHdIUiSQ9g=) (Dec 2025)
    * Medium: [Accelerating vLLM and SGLang Deployment using AutoRound](https://medium.com/@NeuralCompressor/accelerating-vllm-and-sglang-deployment-using-autoround-45fdc0b2683e) (Oct 2025)


* arXiv: [SignRoundV2: Closing the Performance Gap in Extremely Low-Bit Post-Training Quantization for LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.04746) (Dec 2025)

- SGLang related:

    * Intel: [AutoRound Meets SGLang: Enabling Quantized Model Inference with AutoRound](https://community.intel.com/t5/Blogs/Tech-Innovation/Artificial-Intelligence-AI/AutoRound-Meets-SGLang-Enabling-Quantized-Model-Inference-with/post/1727196) (Nov 2025)
    * LMSYS: [AutoRound Meets SGLang: Enabling Quantized Model Inference with AutoRound](https://lmsys.org/blog/2025-11-13-AutoRound/) (Nov 2025)

* HuggingFace: [What is AutoRound?](https://huggingface.co/blog/autoround) (April 2025)

## 2024

* EMNLP: [Optimize Weight Rounding via Signed Gradient Descent for the Quantization of LLM](https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-emnlp.662/) (Oct 2024)

# 2023

* arXiv: [TEQ: Trainable Equivalent Transformation for Quantization of LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10944) (Oct 2023)

* Medium: [Effective Post-Training Quantization for Large Language Models](https://medium.com/intel-analytics-software/effective-post-training-quantization-for-large-language-models-with-enhanced-smoothquant-approach-93e9d104fb98) (Apr 2023)

Commit message:

Autoround in vLLM Office Hours
Signed-off-by: yiliu30 <yi4.liu@intel.com>

docs/publication_list.md, after:

Full Publications/Events
==========

### 2026
- AutoRound algorithms presented in vLLM Office Hours (in collaboration with LLM Compressor Team). [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lXub9qlQ1YM&list=PLbMP1JcGBmSHxp4-lubU5WYmJ9YgAQcf3&index=1) (Jan 2026)

## 2025

- LLM Compressor related:

    * 知乎: [AutoRound x LLM Compressor：让低比特量化 LLM 更准、更好推理](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/1982167638315664412) (Dec 2025)
    * 微信: [AutoRound x LLM Compressor：让低比特量化 LLM 更准、更好推理](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/l5WA-1_4ipffQN6GOH2Iqg) (Dec 2025)
    * vLLM: [Advancing Low‑Bit Quantization for LLMs: AutoRound x LLM Compressor](https://blog.vllm.ai/2025/12/09/intel-autoround-llmc.html) (Dec 2025)
    * RedHat: [Advancing Low‑Bit Quantization for LLMs: AutoRound x LLM Compressor](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2025/12/09/advancing-low-bit-quantization-llms-autoround-x-llm-compressor)  (Dec 2025)
    * Intel: [Advancing Low-Bit Quantization for LLMs: AutoRound x LLM Compressor](https://community.intel.com/t5/Blogs/Products-and-Solutions/HPC/Advancing-Low-Bit-Quantization-for-LLMs-AutoRound-x-LLM/post/1729336) (Dec 2025)

- vLLM related:

    * 小红书: [AutoRound x vLLM: 把 4bit LLM 量化到可用](https://www.xiaohongshu.com/explore/69396bc6000000000d03e473?note_flow_source=wechat&xsec_token=CB6G3F_yM99q8XfusvyRlJqm8Db4Es2k0kYIHdIUiSQ9g=) (Dec 2025)
    * Medium: [Accelerating vLLM and SGLang Deployment using AutoRound](https://medium.com/@NeuralCompressor/accelerating-vllm-and-sglang-deployment-using-autoround-45fdc0b2683e) (Oct 2025)


* arXiv: [SignRoundV2: Closing the Performance Gap in Extremely Low-Bit Post-Training Quantization for LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2512.04746) (Dec 2025)

- SGLang related:

    * Intel: [AutoRound Meets SGLang: Enabling Quantized Model Inference with AutoRound](https://community.intel.com/t5/Blogs/Tech-Innovation/Artificial-Intelligence-AI/AutoRound-Meets-SGLang-Enabling-Quantized-Model-Inference-with/post/1727196) (Nov 2025)
    * LMSYS: [AutoRound Meets SGLang: Enabling Quantized Model Inference with AutoRound](https://lmsys.org/blog/2025-11-13-AutoRound/) (Nov 2025)

* HuggingFace: [What is AutoRound?](https://huggingface.co/blog/autoround) (April 2025)

## 2024

* EMNLP: [Optimize Weight Rounding via Signed Gradient Descent for the Quantization of LLM](https://aclanthology.org/2024.findings-emnlp.662/) (Oct 2024)

# 2023

* arXiv: [TEQ: Trainable Equivalent Transformation for Quantization of LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.10944) (Oct 2023)

* Medium: [Effective Post-Training Quantization for Large Language Models](https://medium.com/intel-analytics-software/effective-post-training-quantization-for-large-language-models-with-enhanced-smoothquant-approach-93e9d104fb98) (Apr 2023)
